Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture and this lecture.
We're going to cover the list which is very important datatype when it comes to Python programming in
general.
All right.
So we covered before how to let's say define an integer.
For example if you live say say X equals let's say 10.
And if I find that if I wanted to take a look at x if I were right it's only okay.
That has value of Ken with an X..
And if I want to go and just get the type of x and if I hit on it that would tell me there's an integer.
If I go and change that and make it let's say 10.5 run in granite granite then you'll.
Well that pipe has flopped.
All right.
If I change that and make it let's say whatever string method.
Hello world for instance.
And around it running on it they'll tell me well that's actually a string.
Okay so now we have pretty much you know kind of experts come to the finding.
We used the tapes again such as strings integer and flopped.
Now let's go to the fun part.
Let's go and define what we call list.
So list simply is kind of a collection of elements.
So we can for example make a collection of let's say seeders of numbers instead of having just one single
number let's say five or 10 or whatever we can create a list think of a list that's kind of an array
which is kind of a series of elements you know connected to each other.
Let's see how can we define a list first.
OK so I'm going to define my list.
So here I'm just fine you can call it whatever anybody want.
And to the list we actually use the square brackets here and then we list the elements in order.
So we say okay that's the first element to the second element.
And that's my third element.
Right.
And then we separately them with comma.
And if I don't that nothing happened.
Looks good.
If I wanted to view what's on my list.
I don't know.
Tell me where my list has elements 1 2 and 3.
Right.
If I wanted to take a look and let's say give the tape of my list and if I find it they'll tell me the
data pipe is actually a list which is great.
This was actually what I was expecting.
I did what we could do actually.
Here we find the list that has all integers in it.
What we could do is that we can actually mix and match different data types within a list which is again
really very powerful it comes to Python programming.
So let's assume they're going to find again another list going to my list again.
And then I'm going to initialize it with just a bunch of data types.
When I say okay let's find an integer for instance let's put some string.
Let's call it Mitch for example let's for example say five for instance let's hear it.
Okay but it looks good.
And if I wanted to view again my list I'm going to say okay my lists and granite will tell me.
Okay well that's basically that is what I've got.
I can go ahead as well and print.
If I wanted to print my list and if I had it they would tell me these out of kind of the elements that
were expecting as well within our lives.
Great.
I think that's pretty much how can we find a list.
And what we could do as well here if they wanted to show you this kind of an advanced form of the list
is what we call it the nested list which is ilist INSIDE THE LIST.
OK.
And I want it to be confused again it's very simple.
Let's see how can we define that.
So it's actually going to the final key my list equals two.
And then again open square brackets and they're going to say Okay first element in my list is call it
Mitch.
Right.
And then the second element it will be just the number.
It won't be just float for example at 1 be such a string.
We're actually going to define ilist INSIDE THE LIST and that's what we call it nested lists.
OK so how can we define that.
Actually you can again create another list inside the list by again opening another square bracket which
means that's kind of you know like in New lists inside my bigger list which is defined here.
And then you call it whatever you want then here you can simply go ahead and define it at say three
find six and find seven or eight.
You can on that.
Looks good.
And I can go ahead and copy and paste.
Done it.
That would give me that's my Again nested list.
So what we need to do here is that we need to do what we call it indexing which is simply we want to
access a specific element.
Let's assume that it wanted for example to access number six or element here of the value of six.
How can I get this.
We do that by quality indexing.
OK let's take a look at a very simple example first.
So it's.
We're going to just ignore the nested list because it's still a bit complex.
We're just going to take a look at just a simple one.
Just again finding my list that has too much and 5 and it's assumed that I wanted to print.
For example let's see the first element you get to what it could do a mistook it print open print.
And then like the name of my list which is called My underscored list.
And in order to access elements within the list I open square brackets and then specify a number here
which is what we call it index.
Right.
So the first element in my list has an index of zero.
The second element in my list he admits has an index of one and then he of the third element in my list
has an index of two which is a little bit confusing with a D with Python but you going to get used to
it afterwards.
Again so to xes the first element I just need to use to come up with zero and that we're simply here
is generally to two okay go to my list and access the first ilim element or the element that has an
index of 0.
That's exactly what I'm looking for.
Alright let's run it and then you come up with two which is the value of the perfect.
If I change that and make it let's say 1.
If it.
Then you come up with Mitch which is the value you that were getting fibre and to come up with 5 which
is a value for you that would count.
Again please remember and don't forget that you know like when we do indexing to a list the first element
has an index of zero index of 1 and this have index of two great.
Let's see how can we do what the nested indexing.
So let's assume that can define elist.
Okay go find it whatever you mean to say here okay my list equates to again open square brackets and
I'm going to find that C string first Mets for example and then here I'm going to create actually two
lists which is going to come here to create two lists.
First list has values 3 6 and 7 and then the second list has let's say another value let's call it yellow
like the column for instance and then five and then six or eight.
If that looks good and what I wanted to do I wanted for example to print let's say the letter T here.
Which is weird but let's assume they're going to print.
He had the letter T for example although one for innocence to print Lety only yellow.
Here.
How can we access that.
How can it do indexing for a nested list.
Listicle OK I think a print right and I'm going to call the name of my list which my list or put square
brackets.
And if I listed let's say 0.
Okay an error run it.
That will give me mitsch which is the first value here.
If I say my list of 1 and if I ran it that would return the second element in the launch.
In the big basically list and that's why you end up with another list which is here because this is
the element that has an index of 1 in my big list.
Yes it's a list that's a different topic but you know the idea is in my big list.
This is has indicate 0.
This has index one and all that has an index of 2.
Let's give it a shot to run it.
You'll come up with yellow five and six which agree.
All right.
Let's assume that a one or two exits elements within the element.
Let's assume that just no one to access let's say all of this.
I just need for example to adjust the yellow.
How can I do that.
So if I say print my list and then open square brackets then I would value of two that would return
the entire list.
What I could do here is to do nested indexing.
I can actually open another square bracket and put in mix of zeo.
Simply put I'm saying look go to my larger list.
Take the element number two which is simply all this and then within this get the element number dizzier
which is simply yellow.
Go for it.
You'll come up with yellow which is great.
If I change that and make it let's say to run it to come up with a value of six.
If I let's say I want to talk in this 6 foot x for instance then I need that's zero.
All that is one which means they have to go here making this one.
And inside my list they have this index zero this index one great So that's why I need to come here
and make this index one.
Before I run it you you'll come up with a value of x here which is great.
Perfect.
Alright I hope it's not too confusing.
Hope it's pretty straightforward where you chose the next topic that we're going to be covering.
That's why we call it negative indexing.
OK what do you mean by negative indexing.
Let's assume that it wanted to access for example elements from the end of my list.
Let's give it a shot.
This is something and I just copy that here.
And I wanted to opt in the last elements within the list.
I can actually do that easily by seeing it print anything and specify my list and then open square brackets.
And within that square brackets is going to seem minus one indicating that any in the last element within
my list.
If I done that if I run it that will return the value of 5 which is simply the last element within my
list.
And that's how we do.
Being basically negative indexing.
OK.
If I change that and make it live seem like a stew that will give me the second last element here which
is you know like from from from the back from the end which is you know Mitch.
OK great.
Right.
The next example I'm going be covering is what we call it slicing.
So now we cover it how we do just the finalist.
The fine nested list but for him indexing which is exis element within the list we know how to perform
as well.
Indexing in nested list which is great.
Now I know how to do negative indexing which is how can I get this element at the end of the list.
And now I can actually define as well for colic element or a list slicing which is just going into a
list that actually opening just one element in thinning more of them than one element of it it's the
good at listicle of the secret list to find my lists and let's call it for instance two.
Let's call it Mitch for example.
Let's define let's say five seven eight and 10 and let's say 15 for example and so on and that's right.
That's my list.
Looks great.
Let us assume that I wanted to access for example a couple of elements in here.
How can access them.
You know it's not just one element.
Action one.
Go ahead and exis more than one element.
We can do that by seeing it print.
I'm going to see my list which is the name of the list.
They wanted to access or put a square brackets.
And then I can mention here the index which is the start and end point of whatever it is that I'm looking
for.
Okay.
Let's assume going to start off let's say from zero.
Put two columns.
Let's say two.
Let's see what's going to happen.
If I had done that you would find that you came up with a value of too much.
Okay.
Which means that he had when it put zero Colin to.
Means I'm asking to get the element with index of zero which is this one.
And then the element of index of one which is this one and that's it.
We're going to stop.
Which means that here when I mentions zero column two that means any the element of index of zero end
element of index of one and that's it.
All right.
And that's it again.
Little bit of confusion Susan.
Actually there are two confusing points.
You know it comes off you know like Python in general indexing or slicing first.
The first element has a value of zero index of zeo.
Okay not one second element when I put two.
Just think of it as it's not two it's actually one.
OK.
So we just we put up to.
This value and not including.
That's the overall idea I get it's a little bit confusing but think of it this as zero and 1.
So we need the element here element and the second element that if I change that and make it let's say
for if I had it you would come up with the elements in 0 1 2 and 3 you'd include the index.
OK.
That's pretty much.
That's pretty much it.
How can you the elements.
Let's say I wanted to access for example these elements a 10 and 15.
This is index 0 1 2 3 4 so he is going to come here and list four.
Right.
And then I need five six and seven.
All right so can you just put seven here and if I'd done it you would come up with a value of a 10 and
15.
You simply put.
You took the elements.
This is again 0 1 2 3 4 you took the number 4 5 6 and you did it include seven.
Okay.
Why.
Because it's again you don't you include up to and not including the last element 7.
I hope it's pretty clear and not confusing.
Let's keep going.
This is one that I wanted to print for example all the elements within the list.
You can do that in print or in parentheses.
See my list and what we could do we're going to say open square brackets and just put two columns in
there two columns here and means OK just bring demanding all the elements around it that would bring
me all the elements that they have within my list.
All right.
Great.
What if I wanted to for example o'keane let's say the elements starting from for example this element
and moving on just you know all the list I need 5 7 8 10 and 15 and all like all elements I can do that
by seeing okay print right thing and specify my list my list open square brackets and I could say I
need the element.
This is elliman 0 1 2.
Right.
Let's assume there is say okay okay I'm going to do let's say elements starting from 3 and then C column
a column that mean any element starting from number 3 and moving on all of it all in our list of right.
It then will come up with the element 7 8 10 and 15 again use in the 0 1 2 and 3.
So you started from the element number to 3.
And moving on.
And that's why we're pleased.
All these elements hit 7 8 10 and 15 the last one that I wanted to discuss is how can we all clean the
length of the list which is how many elements are contained within the list.
You can do that by say print my list open and you're going to say I wanted for example if I little pin
elements within the list if I wanted to get the length of the list I actually don't need to do this
are just going to see any more of this.
And I think I need the lens which is a function to obtain the lens of my list.
I think I should printed on the screen.
I'm sorry here I just need to add another brackets were fed on that that will give me number 7 which
is the number of elements contained within the list which is 1 2 3 4 5 6 and 7 7 elements.
There's a number of elements by using them.
The use of function that's right and that's pretty much what I have for this lecture.
I hope you guys enjoyed it and see you in the next election.